>> Steve Kinney: We're going to kind of
recap some of the stuff from yesterday and
talk a little bit more
about Service Worker 201.
Generally speaking, some of these
things fall into that kind of thing we
said the other day of, 90% of the time
these might not be things that
you need until they're definitely
a thing that you need, right?
But it is a certain amount of
restraint and thinking about it.
They are not the immediate go-to.
But there are certain things about Service
Workers that you can control that other
solutions haven't given us
the ability to do in the past, right?
And as I mentioned,
Service Workers fit in really nicely with
this idea of the extensible web manifesto.
Which is, give me low level access, give
me the ability to programmatically decide
and change stuff based
on the needs of my app.
Don't try to assume all web
apps must need this and
try to come up with some panacea, right?
So we have some fine-grained control
into the life cycle of Service Workers,
where we can either introspect
where it is along it's upbringing,
coming of age and
eventual retirement as a Service Worker.
As well as being able to push an existing
Service Worker out of the way.
We can control all those things.
It doesn't always mean that we should,
it just means that we can, all right?
So we do have this fine-grained
access that we can look at.
And other technologies, we'll talk
a little bit about app cache later,
didn't give us those.
And sometimes not having that escape hatch
or fine-grained control can lead us to not
being able to use the technology the way
that we need to for our application.
>> Steve Kinney: So
the first one is on the install event,
we know that a service worker,
when it's been installed,
will wait until all of the browser windows
or frames have disconnected from it.
When they've all disconnected,
then we know that it is safe for
the new service worker to take over.
However, there might be a situation
where that doesn't work for you.
At which point you can
call event.skipWaiting,
which does exactly what it sounds like.
You skip waiting and
you push the existing service worker out.
Now, this can be fraught with peril,
because that service worker could have
been doing something very important.
The client-side code that loaded that
service worker might not be the most
recent version, right?
We are showing you this for
the sake of having a comprehensive look
at the abilities of service worker.
Mike and Steve in no way endorse the use
of this without a really good reason.
And we'll talk about some potentially
really good reasons later, but
we will make this disclaimer
one more time, Mike and
Steve do not endorse this
without a really good reason.
But it exists, and there might be
a situation where you might need it.
The other thing you can do is not only can
you push out an existing service worker,
but on the activate stage, when a service
worker kinda takes the stage and
becomes the new, active, service worker,
there's the possibility if it is
the first service worker, for instance,
that there are connected clients that
don't have a service worker currently.
At which point it can tell the browser,
anything that doesn't have a service
worker, hello,
I'm your service worker now,
I'll be handling your network request,
thank you very much, right?
So this will actually take it for
all current ones.
We saw the life cycle, and
in the registration process we have
the registration, which is the Service
Worker that we literally just registered.
But we can also look at what
the installing Service Worker is.
And if you remember the Chrome DevTools,
we're able to see that in the DevTools.
We're able to see that we have
a Service Worker that's installing.
We have a Service Worker that was waiting.
We have a Service Worker that was active,
right?
In our general programming, we have that
same introspection into what's going on in
the life cycle of our service worker,
right?
So there are situations where you
might wanna be able to check and see.
And we have this fine-grain control over
everything happening with Service Worker.
And we can see all those things
programmatically, which is really cool.
>> Steve Kinney: At the same time,
we can also add events, right?
In this case, we can add an event
listener for an update found, right?
Okay, this service worker
has taken the stage, but
maybe it wants to know about new service
workers that come onto the scene, right?
There could be a situation where you can
make sense to be like, hey, there is a new
service worker available, especially for
a particularly long-lived application.
And we could, for instance,
listen for this event and
present user interface, right?
A new service worker's event available,
click here to update, right?
And then we could theoretically have it
take the stage, so on and so forth, right?
So we can hear about every new
service worker that comes and
fire off events for it.
For the new worker,
we can add a state change event, right?
When your state changes,
I wanna be able to do stuff, right?
Again, this is the 201 level,
this is not probably your day-to-day
relationship with service worker.
But the main thing that I want you to
get out of this is if there is a very
particular need or use case, and
Mike's gonna talk about a few of those
in a little bit,
that you have these tools available.
You are not at the mercy
of service worker, right?
You are in control, cool.
>> Steve Kinney: We can also listen for
a service worker taking over, right?
If the controller changed,
if this happens mid-process,
we know that somebody
probably called skipWaiting.
Right, so
these are some of the finer-grain ones.
Again, 99% of the time, you're probably
not going to need them, but 1% of
the time you're definitely maybe going
to need one of them, definitely, maybe.
>> Speaker 2: Can you pass state from new
service worker to old service worker or
vice-versa?
>> Steve Kinney: The-
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] transition.
>> Steve Kinney: That's a good question.
The existing service worker can
intercept the network request.
And you could pull it off,
you probably shouldn't, right?
Could you set stuff in an IndexDB and
then have one read it, yeah.
I'm gonna say, don't.
[LAUGH] Because at that point, you've
got changing state in the other one.
I would say that, could you pull it off,
I could come up with ways that you could,
and I don't endorse any any of them.
>> Speaker 3: So let me just ask what kind
of state were you asking about there?
>> Steve Kinney: Well,
I'm envisioning a controller change.
And obviously there's the obvious, I'm
doing something, I have controller change,
stop doing it,
don't attempt to complete it.
>> Speaker 3: But I was wondering if
the use case for that listener was, I'm in
the middle of something, here's what you
should do with it new service worker,
cuz I've gotten halfway
through this process.
>> Speaker 2: Steve's answer,
100% is correct in that case.
>> Steve Kinney: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: I only ask cuz state covers
a lot of things.
There are some situations, for example,
we will soon be working with
the concept of a fallback image.
So instead of getting the usual 404 image,
we can store something.
Maybe that's something that's not changing
very often, that may be something that is
sorted in memory over many different
versions of the service worker.
So persisting that, and
the kind of thing that Steve's gonna
talk about soon, that would be okay.
But sort of state that relates to
the operation of that service worker,
don't do that.
>> Steve Kinney: Okay.
Anyway that you could do that would
be a colossal hack and
you probably shouldn't, right?
If it's designed not to let you,
if you're clever enough,
you can find your way around that, but
it's definitely a potential sad path.